=head1 NAME

chasquid-util - chasquid management tool


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<chasquid-util> [I<options>] user-add I<user@domain> [--password=I<password>] [--receive_only]

B<chasquid-util> [I<options>] user-remove I<user@domain>

B<chasquid-util> [I<options>] authenticate I<user@domain> [--password=I<password>]

B<chasquid-util> [I<options>] check-userdb I<domain>

B<chasquid-util> [I<options>] aliases-resolve I<addr>

B<chasquid-util> [I<options>] domaininfo-remove I<domain>

B<chasquid-util> [I<options>] print-config


=head1 DESCRIPTION

chasquid-util is a command-line utility for chasquid(1) operations.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<user-add> I<user@domain> [--password=I<password>] [--receive_only]

Add a new user to the domain.

If I<--receive_only> is given, then the user will never successfully
authenticate. This is useful when creating receive-only users.

=item B<user-remove> I<user@domain>

Remove the user from the domain.

=item B<authenticate> I<user@domain> [--password=I<password>]

Check the user's password.

=item B<check-userdb> I<domain>

Check the integrity of the domain's users database.

=item B<aliases-resolve> I<addr>

Resolve the given address. Talks to the running chasquid instance.

=item B<domaininfo-remove> I<domain>

Remove the domain information entry. This can be used to manually allow a
security level downgrade. Talks to the running chasquid instance.

=item B<print-config>

Parse and print the configuration in a human-readable way.

=item B<-C> or B<--config_dir=<path>>

Configuration directory.

=item B<--configdir=<path>>

Deprecated alias for B<--config_dir=<path>>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

chasquid(1)
