=head1 NAME

chasquid - SMTP (email) server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<chasquid> [I<options>...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

chasquid is an SMTP (email) server with a focus on simplicity, security, and
ease of operation.

It's written in Go, and distributed under the Apache license 2.0.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<-config_dir> I<dir>

configuration directory (default F</etc/chasquid>)

=item B<-alsologtostderr>

also log to stderr, in addition to the file

=item B<-logfile> I<file>

file to log to (enables logtime)

=item B<-logtime>

include the time when writing the log to stderr

=item B<-logtosyslog> I<tag>

log to syslog, with the given tag

=item B<-v> I<level>

verbosity level (1 = debug)

=item B<-version>

show version and exit

=back


=head1 FILES

The daemon's configuration is by default in F</etc/chasquid/>, and can be
changed with the I<-config_dir> flag.

Inside that directory, the daemon expects the following structure:

=over 8

=item F<chasquid.conf>

Main config file, see chasquid.conf(5).

=item F<domains/>

Per-domain configuration.

=item F<domains/example.com/>

Domain-specific configuration. Can be empty.

=item F<domains/example.com/users>

User and password database for this domain.

=item F<domains/example.com/aliases>

Aliases for the domain.

=item F<certs/>

Certificates to use, one directory per pair.

=item F<certs/mx.example.com/>

Certificates for this domain.

=item F<certs/mx.example.com/fullchain.pem>

Certificate (full chain).

=item F<certs/mx.example.com/privkey.pem>

Private key.

=back

Note the F<certs/> directory layout matches the one from certbot(1) (client for
Let's Encrypt CA), so you can just symlink F<certs/> to
F</etc/letsencrypt/live>.

Make sure the user you use to run chasquid under ("mail" in the example
config) can access the certificates and private keys.


=head1 CONTACT

L<Main website|https://blitiri.com.ar/p/chasquid>.

If you have any questions, comments or patches please send them to the mailing
list, C<chasquid@googlegroups.com>.  To subscribe, send an email to
C<chasquid+subscribe@googlegroups.com>.


=head1 SEE ALSO

chasquid-util(1), chasquid.conf(5)
